minutes 28/10/25

organise a meeting for later this week to finalise literature review and theme analysis

worked on merging themes together from the different interviews on the canva.

what we develop may not necessarily be an app on patients' phones, it may be some kind of software used by clinics

email Varun a draft of our D1 by end of Thursday

booked next weeks meeting at 12.30 (josh had course rep meeting at 1.30 so couldn't do 1pm)

must collate our themes into a table.

need to work on the group deliverable report, made a google doc for that.

if we want to make a good literature review, it might be quite jarring if we all just write our own section and then smash them together. for top marks it'd have to be well thought out and align well with our thematic analysis.

actually, the specification doesn't explicitly mention themes in the marking for the literature review. looking at the example reviews, they seem to group by what design choices the literature would imply. so, we find overlaps between design conclusions from the literature, and those are our headings.

reference to gaps in literature could be scattered throughout, but conclusion likely the best place.

josh - collate themes into table, add description to each
taran - do some headings for literature review, write some paragraphs/initial draft points


- Create thematic analysis table [Josh Wilcox] - In Progress
- Work on literature review headings and draft points [Taran McVay] - In Progress
- Email Varun our draft deliverable on Thursday [Taran McVay] - In Progress