Meeting Minutes 27/01/2026

D3 Feedback:
 our scope is too large, each of our three sprints could itself be an entire SDDP project? not sure how much we wanna change at this point and if we reduce it too much we risk the project being too simple...

 the point about the homepage was good, we will add a story for that

 "risk that medication reminders cause appointments to be overlooked" we can just colour them differently

talking about git:
 avoid committing to main
 people work on features in their own branches, then make pull requests, and we resolve merge conflicts before merging in
 
 unlikely to meet daily, and we won't all be working on it daily either, so our twice-weekly meetings combined with discussions within the pull request itself should be fine for collaboration. if we are finding it is not we can work out a different method.

 
In D5:
 No page limit
 Need to submit updated UML diagrams
  Can do this later in the deliverable, as we need to know what changes have been made to update it
  Activity diagram is pretty similar

 Submit D4 sketches and prototypes again but with annotations this time.

 For burndown chart: This meeting is session 1
 
 Should include a page for responses to feedback	

 We need to submit our 2nd sprint plan as well

 If we are removing forums we need to re-organise our overall project sprint plan
 

Deciding to remove the forums, based on our D3 feedback of our project scope being too large. It is the largest aspect of the plan we had so far. Reasoning:
 It is the least relevant to the JBTD
 Introduces the most complications to the project, needing networking instead of just being a primarily local app
 Feels a bit unrealistic in terms of the app actually providing realistic and non-hypothetical value. The forum won't really provide value unless there are other people in there posting, which we won't really be able to have.

Value does not need to be a whole distinct fully fleshed feature, it can be more fine-grained.

Use BASHH for articles on sexual health!

Actions:
- Get some placeholder articles in the project, stored in the project somewhere and formatted in markdown (Oli)
- Calculator (Josh)
- Look into what we'd need for a privacy policy-esque thing, even with local data storage (Sam)
- Review calculator PR (Taran)
- Write annotations for our D4 prototypes and sketches, in D5 overleaf, can use the writeups from D3 (Safiy)
- Work on sprints and stories (Taran)

• Get some placeholder articles [Oliver Punter] - In Progress
• Look into privacy policy and what we'd need to disclose to users if we're storing data about them locally [Sam Wiles] - In Progress
• Review Josh's calculator PR [Taran McVay] - In Progress
• Write annotations for D4 prototypes and add them to the D5 overleaf, can use D3 [Safiy Hussain] - In Progress
• Work on removing forums from our sprints and the subsequent reorganisation of stories [Taran McVay] - In Progress