# 5th May

- Need a Prototype Description  
  - Along with screenshots and annotations  
- Discussion of evaluation process:  
- We have 5 participants, so we are going to run two at once using two of our laptops. Each participant will have 2 people watching them, making notes  
- We will screen record them so we can do further analysis if we want. E.g. checking exactly what settings they changed. Decided not to do the quantitative things like click-counting  
- Participants will start at calculator, set up secret equation and do onboarding, and then we’ll direct them to the settings page to set up using their persona  
- Maybe have a shared checklist for all of us when we are making notes while watching people, so we make similar observations

- Still need to write justification for changes in evaluation plan  
- Need to describe the people we have recruited in the document  
  - Use results from pre-test questionnaire  
- Change success criteria to be more qualitative, since we don’t have enough participants to do proper quantitative analysis  
  - Can still evaluate the same things, we’re just changing the criteria to be more qualitative  
  - Still include quantitative analysis\! But not as huge a focus on it.  
- Print out user guide with the personas  
- Need an appendix with all the forms and anonymised **data**  
- Josh send out user guide along with the pre-test microsoft form  
- Change evaluation plan to follow process of: Set up secret equation \-\> Adjust settings based on persona \-\> Interact with the rest of the app  
- In our evaluation, we should state that the quantitative analysis is not as significant due to the small sample size of participants.

## Actions

Josh: Send out forms, and add forms and data to overleaf once we get responses  
Oli: Work on adjusting some success criteria to be more qualitative  
Safiy/Oli: Move accessibility and display settings step in the plan to before information retrieval. Also add a step for setting up the settings according to the given persona.  
Safiiy:	Create checklist sheet for when we’re observing so our notes are consistent  
Taran: Add prototype description, and do screenshots later on, at weekend

- Send out forms, and add forms and data to overleaf [Josh Wilcox] - In Progress
- Work on adjusting some success criteria to be more qualitative   [Oliver Punter] - In Progress
- Move accessibility and display settings step in the plan to before information retrieval. Also add a step for setting up the settings according to the given persona.   [Safiy Hussain, Oliver Punter] - In Progress
- Create checklist sheet for when we’re observing so our notes are consistent   [Safiy Hussain] - In Progress
- Add prototype description, and do screenshots later on, at weekend [Taran McVay] - In Progress